but first of all thanks for agreeing to speak to me today
and can you give me a bit of your background if for me if you can give me your name and address and date of birth to start off with
oh Yvonne Bradley
16th of the 7th 49
and where you born I was born in 1940 but he bought
and what was your father's job occupation
where he was invalided
at a young age
yet about accident so he didn't work much
where was he what did you was working all right
International
but today when he had the accident he couldn't work after yeah
did you work at all then no
no
they didn't go to work in MJ today no they didn't you know when you had five children you are still human look after them so you will want to fight
so where did you fit into it and I was the middle one and I was the boss
all right
and where did you go to school and
I mean to school in buddy broad Primary
first and then I went to glanmore
and how old were you when you left I was 14 when I left school
I asked you because my father wasn't working
because she was at age you could leave school and
work because your parents went through again
so I left a 14 I went to a collect free laundry cuz nobody has to take me
I worked there for a year then I went to a shop for a couple of years
and then I started a modest more tours in 1967
and there I worked until 11:00 tomorrow lasts
I've done
part time full time
for that just me and you said that nobody else would take you it was the biggest security because if they wouldn't take you a trade the optical show me I was too young
so trade notice more just told me that I was 3:00 a.m. I thought it did they take people then 16 years to take them in the factory 15 if you had special
you know
needs like
well I could have gone that a 50 and
yeah
so
when you left
well did you know
did you know you would get work in the laundry no
just left just left actually leaving look for work yeah so did you feel under pressure to leave
you know what you have like to have stayed longer then no not really
no I was glad to get up today
I was in a school bus
you
did die yet know
it was a bit of a
me alone is called
what did you like the school work I did like the work
you like the teachers
loved the prepares
because I was the boss
so how did you manage to get a job in the laundry then
well I went there to ask for a job they asked me my age
well I couldn't work in the factory parts of it they had to go in there
or when they take the clothes in
and when they fetch the clothes in they told me these clothes are from a butcher shop
and they weren't
they were from the mogg
a little bit soon
oh I craved my eyes out block my out
and when fella that I worked with him or just not just he was there
he was on there
vans
Peter
oh I never forget it
I was crazy into this trailer more and he was answered
he had a squeaky little advice
so I told him I don't like getting there so what they did they put me on the door
well I was on there
from desk lamp it away because I couldn't go into the factory until you were
that she used to work machinery in there
so what was the Monday like then if you're only 14 were you earning much less than when something and everywhere when put something a day sorry
that's all I was having I went to a shop to work then I was having three
awesome and yeah it was at the Temple in the shop
and I only got in there because my mother knew the woman
she was a family friend so I got in there because of that
and when I went to the back factory I started on three- pounds something and I will but you were on piece of work
wait
try and try it yeah
so Andrew you decide to try for Morrisons yeah maybe why did you choose that factory
when my sister started working my family were there you know when I had to
my uncle really got me in there
so
did you have to have an interview
or something yeah you watching TV
but I think that is only from Mallett you then part so what did they ask you can you remember
no nothing much asked me as Jimmy if you could draw
setting things with your hands and
what is all that is it it doesn't very
but the
old woman there she was a bitch
oh she oh I see this a supervisor or she was a bitch
what was your supervisor know she was their human resource Office said is they call him there when
they
she was a
right so I'm walking away would you say she was a bitch
you know how
she wasn't very nice to people
you know she took you on no yes yes yes true
and there was another one with her she was only
getting up there when I was there man but she was trying to show her authority
I can't remember the one that was there
was a blog with there
but he was quite nice that there
she was right there sergeant major you know
that put on one man and they've had quite a hard time and then if
I'd rather look for men yeah and I'd rather work with men
it's not that they tell you
because men wouldn't appear we would win the work with them you know but
they were afraid especially me I was a bit of a character Mark
oh
man yes
um
in there tried to when you were about to leave school
and you mentioned before we started recording that you would have liked to have been a hairdresser yes or I'd love to I used to do hair when I was the youngster right
you know my
people around me to say well can you do my exercise to do my
my own marriage to do my sister says
try to make a couple of Bob
do when people say it or they'd give me
you know practice cigarettes or something with smoking and
and
I used to do the hair for them
yeah
so wasn't it an option then few to do hairdressing well you I couldn't afford to
because I mean you had to go to college when they are to bring my neon
you know so I did not much of a choice
super wanted to take or something wasn't possible wasn't a possibility you know so how did you feel about that
I was a bit upset over that my mind later- than that
so
how did you realize that that wasn't gonna happen when you were in school my name is in school yes so I thought well I won't be able to go to college because you want to go to college
oh gorgeous somebody that will train you
up and that's in there wasn't that many people as you take you on anyway yeah you know
so
we didn't have a choice
yeah
so what
do you think
you were going to end up doing then you didn't know what
not really
facts because it's all it was in them and he was there yeah
you know
feel about the money had you heard that the money was good because the factory menu where else yeah
to shop with or anything like that it was good
and you had to listen again if an adult
in the shop they
used to have Tuesday afternoon and that does it
because I will send these weak in the shop you have the hours for a long shot I used to wash the floors in the shop
on the Sunday and queen on the Sunday she'd make me dinner
and I'd have to sit in there
shopping images
alright
where was that anybody bought all right
but your mother got you that job but she yes I mean well another used to shop there and she was a friend of it because I think my mother work for her mother
previous you know
yeah
so you didn't have company they're really then
you know you have no but you're only aged she and your lady
because when you're young you don't want that no you don't know no no
alright to go back to when you started a Morris Motors then
you knew somebody working then something that you've got your interview yes Austin it's my uncle got me in there so you were 16 when you say yes 1770 yes and can you remember your first day you
yes
it's
frightened to death
I was fighting to death
no people
look in there yes but there was so many different
departments
because you want the
Wellington you are there
sorry new at the car eaters
so it
you didn't know where you were going to go
so when I first started there
you should I have to go to a school
but instead of sending me to the school they give me one of the four men
and you said I'll show you up
so he trained me up
as well all right
that's alright
and he said we are good today you know get on the job
so I did another choice I just had to get on the job
so I did nothing you wouldn't need more straight away she could do in pieces rep then
you know the more you Jen the more piece rugby we'll get in
so just a good thing then
after a couple of days I met my
future husband there
of course I was quick it was quick it was quick
and
but it was so calm because the love iPhones said I was talking to this girl Susan
and I said always a nice looking there
or she said
and see him of dinner room
don't know I said it's alright
next thing she came back
and they said the shop came over
and he said
I was you called when I write it from city did you know tonight
so I said she was in this other chaps that's when you fancy know I said the wrong way
and then he goes that's why I went down to them
and they stick with emotions yeah
gosh you didn't fancy have it another look around there's a little look around yes
we both did because we didn't stick together for a
like we started going out and then we split up
yeah you're young though and yes but we went back and
yes that's to them
when most of us did but most of Us come out either
there's a very um
well you thought you did not you will quit socializing with them
because you had the clamp you used to go to the clamp
which was in the canteen at the time
to go to the dance
so you know we were with the workmates all the time
did you used to go to the club when you were 17 then yes you could go you could go then yeah
you must watch the drink but you could go there yeah
but you must have monitoring yeah
tell you that
work with
that would do one you will be well again salen says I was reading
and different cars
you said it was peaceworks so whatever you're done
I say we were getting here
silencer
yeah
so how many we could draw
it down then we start a little bit more to have
so they were talking to them oh yes no it doesn't really attack it
well you could say that you could say there was attacking because you are to do so much
before you at your
piece right level
so you would have to do a 20
and then you piece of excited
so how did you feel about once you got going with the work did you feel happy there because you'd have the food jobs previously yeah they've been hard work yes
but working in the factory was hard it was hard work
but we are something
we did that fun
and used to get your brakes
you know
something I wasn't useless oh
you should get you you know
well I'd record it if the shop was like
if they're all day
I used to get the bread and in the morning
then
I'd save in the shop all day then clean up before I went to warm
clean the fridge is out it was add work
because it was only me and nearly 80 there
when a doctor and again
it was just something that you enjoyed that yes
some of them are bullies their main
without you where bullies
like everywhere this was but um
did you get fully do you think no no
I didn't think so
they they couldn't get it not the boys couldn't with me
because I think what it was I grown up with voices as well like river but two boys younger than me yeah and I looked after them
so I think it just
I was the boss I was the boss of the girl so they were older
so I think I've always been the one that was
when you talk about bullying though with the older women bullying younger girls are what was it
no they
it wasn't really bully and it just trying to show that authority you know show that they were
better than you like you know yeah
I like my mother always taught me there's nobody better than you and there's nobody above you
you're all equal
but that's a good thing to teach your dog because it was a Sunday school teacher at one time yeah and she's always answer
my mother she was a very
mmm
trump properly you know
my father was totally different that's what I come from
my father was a character
so when you talk in about these girls want to be top dog then is it yes
and they couldn't get to you but
did you see examples of them
being able to get to yes so I had some shot them out if I seen the Japanese
I'd be on to them what type of thing would you see happening
and
for like jelly then that they couldn't do certain things so
say there was a job now we can't go on that job
that's my job when I used to tell him it's nobody's job with us there
the chicken
if there was over time and things like that
you know just
to tell them you know you can't do that to them
because
I've always been very unionized
oh of you oh yes and very militant person like that
I don't like somebody be in Rhodes home
so I I'd be the one to tell that I was always in the office
I'm always there
something went wrong
some of my friends will tell you I used to go to the office for them
because they were afraid to talk
you wouldn't go to shops do you recorded in the end yeah but that's
they just asked me for you and I wouldn't do it and I'm sorry you know
what did was I'm
I'm not very cold there to straighten
I got spelling is
yours my dad say yes
but putting it down on paper no way
because I can't even write a letter today god asked my sister in order to write a letter maybe because I'm useless
well everybody's different on things because he used to send my brother lives in Australia where I had two brothers living with pain yeah
and he's a calm you got because they both say you're all right just letters you know yeah so I'd write the letters
then I found my brother and I'd say about my letter
which I can come back from the defects decide for us
speak
yeah
so do you think that went against you in Morris more yes yeah because it could have been a full moon
yeah I was asked to become a full woman there yeah
I don't need it one points
like one of the girls was off
and they asked me if I take over
you know
no I said I'm not doing it
but I tell you what's under why show some of the ice
the jobs because I mean I knew most of the jobs that same
I said I show them the jobs but she left to do the right thing
all right then so I done that for a while
I could say yeah
it's interesting it's what it was
that used to get to me sometimes
that's to think we didn't
I stay at school and learn them
yeah but some people just don't like school for whatever reason isn't it no well it's just like
how did you find the work difficult in school yes
but nobody talking about
because I'm going to tell you a little story now my father
my father had classes like bottle bottoms
srijani glasses for years of my father couldn't read your right
so we took game to the opticians
we had many so I thought chicken was see what it
and their children he's not um
wasn't as I said in the beginning and then they don't think
he was a little threat
and they hadn't picked it up
because he was saying he couldn't do something yeah oh get glasses put in
so in the end of the glasses like that's really cool at least c
yeah he was especially blamed
you know so
often because people didn't signal disabilities didn't take notice a me in school yeah
I think you know I wouldn't do nothing I'd have to go outside and sit
yeah
it's different now oh yes
I learned more coming out to school and then I learned in school
and my son
was it wasn't just like you I was it or when I think it was because yeah because they don't diagnose that back then when I was the right place
I used to add letters
because you know in a way to do where bills in
the shop
yeah
I have to also if I would like to know I don't need
yeah at the end
I should do stupid things like that
not really know when I was doing it yeah
you know and stupid things that used to be
and I could see it after that if somebody showed me
but at the time I thought I didn't drive
so
take this next year I suppose
but if you
you know if you should be going to school now you know what helps you what's up
because
the thing is about people a lot of people were dyslexic they've got very good
skills in other areas yes yeah
yeah they have
so why do you think you are strengths well when you were working now we're more a small does because you could obviously do the work I could do the work I could pick up on it most jobs they put me on a job
I could do it within a couple of minutes for somebody I should take a nap back in
yeah but I used to see things you know
because I've had a few
I've got one in there now what I made my knee
because I put an idea I used to have good idea yes
because if I see something know like um
say they're using it for instance a plug for your now
and they actually take this plug away from
to do it and it was cost them a fortune because they'd have to stop the job
well they told them why don't you put it on
pipes
are pipes because they were here
things
get to spare one
and then get too much you can put this one on
playing to them what to do it
next thing they came back I had 40 pounds I think got it
big deal same 10 million
and that's what they would they then and that's a bit worked
three years after yeah
the same as one of the doors
the doors were jamming on one of them
oh what you call them places
you couldn't get them fixed they wouldn't do it for 11 or many
so much I had an idea put a band on it
because it wouldn't
come back yeah so what I did I was putting bands and then yeah so in the other day and so when the gauge open
the elastic would pull it back
so that is another one of my ideas
you know what college
they did acknowledge yeah but you didn't get nothing for it no
you know very poor yeah
same with this and but like I have seen I couldn't write it on paper yeah so nothing people licking your ideas yes yes you did
because if you have said something to somebody they put it in
and they'd get money for it
the bad happened
we're not to me about do one of the other boys because I had told him what to do yeah I wasn't putting the idea in myself but he did
and he went and told somebody else
I need and
that's
but it's all about not being able to put it down a bit there yeah
you know because we were the most there's no good Telephone Man
they couldn't charge somebody else
because that's what they used to do the engineer would come and not
I just energy at the end
so it was really magnan
to accept your ideas though because you know
you're a woman and stuff they didn't think or does she thinks she is yeah in the beginning they did
but like I'm saying I'm a bossy
bitch
and I am
so if they didn't
listen to me I'd make them listen
you know why I really
lay into them
but
to
take the except it
the actual then yeah I'd have them by the short and clear leaves
and that was literally
so when you went
to work there was there anyone else from
your family
work in there yes because we're working there
my young girls
and my sister just finished she and long finish their
so why did she go to then
did you go back to the optical all right
yeah I think that's what she went did she go to a shop
what did she finish what she finished up the baby oh baby cuz they have to finish you have to finish I had to finish
because I lost a lot to say this threat
yeah
that's not fair though it wasn't fair it wasn't fair then
I think it just two or three years later
they brought it in that you could come back to work oh right
yes I had my boy in 1971
related to finish home when I went back to you later and I had to go back on party time
yeah
well they work part time for 5 years
and then they used to let you off in between you know or would you don't need you today and
did they just
tell you myself then yeah it's just about telling us about time
so then it came I was made full time then they
made me just Returns once again then
because we were the last in then
but of course this week we're at longer than I'd love it longer than getting that long run
but I had to finish because it was broken service
yeah so I just met in that way yeah otherwise in mine because I had my lovely boy
you know what the end of it
didn't worry
I know nobody's in first and fair very unfair yeah
because you do suffer financially yes don't you because there was one girl she had to baby
and the father wouldn't say he was the father
yeah
but they kept it on because you didn't
it just
you know
good for it
but it wasn't very nice for us no
because we had fathers told children
yeah you know but we still have to have them in here
she did have but she wasn't they weren't sure when you know
she kept her job she was there 40 years later
you know
really Mad Men yeah because if you've got to roll it's got to apply to everybody
yeah
grew up
do you know working in the laundry and then in the shop but then in the factory what did other thing other people think what we're acted tunes towards people working in Morris Motors
do you think
oh
these were them
were very nice people
because we used to swell in the factory
well
if you didn't swear when part of the factory
and that was
every day thing if you were in the factory and you'd
say somebody told it on you go
f of you know
it just
occurred in thing because when I went to a month and Collins
said something in the old some of this I don't bring that language on yet
because they never saw
I would tell you our father
is there
something in there then yes
because we didn't
need it
but once you went to the factory you did all the time
and you know how to
use it yet
like this to say you can get away with it
nobody has to because I used to say it in such a
call because I don't know
that I used to say it but
the others couldn't get away with him if my sister come on and say that and I mean
all the end
jealous then about you know girls work tomorrow does because
you know you're on
good money then yes or we don't take him any
do you think other people are jealous
God in
although
saying that I didn't we didn't know many people have said the factory because it is all
all less reworking in the factory on my friends were getting out of this time
so when you saw Sheila then you saw it with them then with the work guys
yeah you know
and because I mean we were
I think we were 2000 girls working there that at that time
you know which is a lot of
because it was more good it's a men there
very few men were there is that then
I think it was because it was
I think remember better than men
not be in
thing but men I think they were afraid of the men to bring them into the factory
otherwise he worked my mind some of it just
but I think they were afraid of the men
but that same
employee in more than and
his friends don't need to love to the menu
I think sure
because men no more militant than women as well and one day
you know men wouldn't accept something additions we will work in
so the work was heavy though was what was everywhere
I heard a few people say yeah yes
what was crazy and especially when I went on the seats
I was lifting 40 pounds seats
you know and throw in them around as if they want a thing up for today for it now
and how'd you think yourself alright
and I don't know when to accidents you know that
I've never claimed from the start I had some
bangs that you think will
but today you can feel them
yeah you know
think oh wait
anything warm it's about that when it was working because he used to put things
changing things and then did you like
are you Rich around and you know this is when you're on the seats on the seats
most clear
a lot of the things that I normally see
that when I was on the seats when we do a complete seat from started finish
as you can imagine now we used to do the flame
or depends now what job you would on you do the frame
come from the pressure up you have all
like
posts and
we join all these up together
and you
put them into a frame
well in them all and every sites
sometimes they could be up to 15 20 well so on the
seats but if you were on the final vinyl then you do all this
and then you check it out then it was another person and they put the
springs on
you know and then put them up dresses on them
and
you you with your camera around like this
honey would you win
another way yeah you know
it is a lot yeah
so
where the men working on that line
where we did have a few
yes they started bringing in
on that plane
but it doesn't sleep with men
mostly when men
work was there a bus or have whenever you started there
it's Sunday if I missed it and get the manager to take me and
because he lived in the reports all right well that's handy so you surrender to the top roads
and used to tell me anyways very
iration was
Mr boss again I can't take exactly not
miss Philips used to go to me
and let's say yeah all the way said
used to tell him
walk on jumping you to tell me
a news to Green to the factory
and this is where the words of the Lake
let's go down because they were all telling me I was carrying on with them
let me show me your kids
and I went down to them
shopping for women
women with Mr Reid
or clock me and then press 7:00 was it was every time we were starting
but it process was 8:00 when he went into there
oh you're doing special treat yeah yes which I
was I was cheeky then
yeah
you know
I've already said that
we would shy then if I wasn't sure you know I don't think I will show you
did not have done work in the fight did thinking about
yeah
so you you would started eight is it to help us what was the clock we started it went and said and then went to a percent that's really
and when you talk about the bus is that a works best first so this first but the Works
you're still us you know not sanctioned and what you call it and subsidized yes yes
so did you have fun on the bus so yes oh and then never forget Wednesday coming
onto the best of this fairly these don't know about buggery what's the date in the next accident
you know him
will he said to me you're coming home with me drag Me in the bed
landed up
because the best is used to go everywhere see there be a line of them did you know that
yes
he was with kids you know and it sounds simple when we got any of them
the boyfriend didn't know I did not I think finished
jobs
of course it going on there because you were you were a community would you yes everybody knew everybody has this business
in my injured because I mean I had nothing to write
you know somebody's got anything to I don't say anything
yeah
but not when to
like I said where everything I'm asleep
who had many secrets no no no
that many
because what you used to go on there was a
great
this is to see something so
what's somebody going on for somebody else yes carry on Zen
people getting pregnant and putting them down the toilet and
never yes it is a bit
of course that is yeah isn't it oh yeah she's just you don't
have business like I said it doesn't mind
yeah
yeah he wanted to do it yeah carry on
where was the girls from then which areas to recommend they were
but report there was a lot of them ready Port
from Southern
Pennsylvania
we had some drum because I know
they were some
various area for it yeah
you know they were quite a vast area
was it no easy there or just really nice here
very nice you are just shout
that's why I think ain't no shouts today
because it's it was if you didn't share with you anyway
but could you talk or YouTube busy anyway
oh no your child but you want your show to talk yeah
you know
that's right most people have got cleaned in today yeah
but obviously successful though because it's difficult to prove it I as a job to prove my add it
I'm talking about 10 years ago I put in my claim I don't do it now all right but I had to put it in 10 years ago because I thought I had to damage
Grom made something wrong with that
well it wasn't just realising Alicia
but I'd be in
the union for a while
and they told me then the Gorge was a problem
so I thought well I could never know when it's in the internet
so when I went to the general and they told me no
you got a damn mission of Duty nice and relation is nothing we can do about it
so how to start affect you today I'm gonna get terrible in the chest
or do you
and I can't talk to anybody
without seeing the case I've got to look for somebody okay you talk to me now and send it away
I can't really hear you I can hear you but I wouldn't be able to make out exactly what you say in yeah
so you are you literally a lot
especially when we go out in the ground
yeah no if you go down a big table yeah and then like this if the chocolate I can't hear you
you know
it's bad it's in Israel
like I'm saying I have my client 10 years ago president of more today if I added today
oh it's done now it's standing now yes there's nothing to worry about
girls lip read while they were working yes yeah
because I've heard somebody else yes you are doing what you're watching then
you know because of the ways you wouldn't be able to work
understand what they were seeing because you imagine the bang in was going on there
because you'd have somebody plugged in by the side of
you opening them
things for you to Wales
silencers are diffused well some things
so the noise anything of your ears so we never had nothing then there was no
never even know
existed I don't think then
wearing them
do you have a uniform
clean over
here
this way and then you know
we had a friend zone
just stop the well from her new can't let's
or when we were Castrol do we added
by zero face there's no one of these
goggles we had a niger thing up here
as we have on spots
on your feet
or they did give you that equipment mine
but you are to buy your gloves
oh did you
must cheeky yeah
but they were giving you the money back when they say in your divide them
but you will get in it back in your pee
yeah
so you were painting a penny for them
you'll get it back and you pay then
because I think they thought people were wasting and yeah so I think it was a way of controlling at them
which is called jeze yeah
the
world
is dangerous at all then
yes
you didn't think it did the time but it was
because one of the girls
went around
because we had a few Explosions there but the gas because it was
bottle at the time but then they put it on mains
so they're just flow into everybody
well what's up
as it was just a new thing and the
it blew back
somebody went to lamp one they must have I have a pocket in it
blew back to the center girl
because I had to
and I was kind of my body at the time
well he had to jump over there can be used to get me
because I was in the middle and I didn't even knew a jets
so they jumped over the care to get me but it's only got
the stronger and it all gone
we shouldn't laugh for no
but she loved it here I think she had a lot of black on it
oh probably yeah
so of course
yes flour yeah
she must have gone to Wales at the same year and
so this is
lovely
get any
comfort you think
I don't know she must have
I didn't clean anything man
but I suppose it didn't think to clear from Miami
he said
yes I got me I'm in a convenience so I had to claim for that 100 pound
oh
that's a lot of money in their days so what happened should I go to the convey yeah and we complained about this can be able to long time
you're supposed to put the other silencers on not too well in them
and we used to them
thing on for the space if there can be it wouldn't take them if you would win too many
we had a conversion and
like a stand on the Cambria
will it we just enjoyed them on
oh no we can't do that we come to that
we watch it happens where the Silence is run this
things did this stands
my arm had gone in there now to put sailors on because I was checking them on the convey yet
and the other ones that have gone and jammed underneath
brought it over and so
come down on my hand
so I am was being dragged down now
with this thing and the convenient nobody could stop it
so I buy the same thing they came I pass them to anyway
did it break
no
they they couldn't get over there was adding drop
I was Black and Blue mine
but they couldn't understand that we didn't break
strong
TEFL Birds
did they take safety seriously then
because I know not really then
because when they're in Chicago because they had
lucky I didn't see it the end
stretcher
they went to get the stretch of the wall
put me on it
when you pick it up
let's stretch your heart was still on the floor here
that's all set you consciously where they went even check in the equipments
so the two boys that picked me up
I think both of them are dead never love them
and when was on the only end
and they were active in which side they were going to pick up
was gonna love my legs and who's gonna make it
and there was a big argument between them
so I think by the time my god
come back
they were still alive given
oh just so friendly
which Union was it in the factory
hmm
transport just transmit in general
when I first started they were used to pay it down in the toilet
because they didn't recognise the Union
no it came in there with that be now 1967
didn't recognise that you didn't regulations yeah
but it was
it has to be a closed shop then
yeah
you know everybody had to be in there so I think
what did was to do is a bit of there's a bit of conflict at that time yeah
so they don't need them and I think it just 19
so what's took
the
shop you would take in the many other toys
I'm not sure whether it is a 5.0 source and I could have actually gone there
got a penny
yeah good to be in a penny
but what did the manager say then they must have known that yes they knew what it but they're not going to say anything
you know they wouldn't say it well it was not much management there then
no you only had one big manager
then you would for men
you would win superintendent that was over the factory now like today
you know so you didn't have that many
managers
there and then with the charge hands or something as well yes for men are they were the four men we've got them for men were they men and women yes yes they would
we are two women over rest or three three sorry there's no
Academy the other ones name
know so they were chances to go on to be
oh yes for for women because I was asked to become one yeah yeah
like I say if I just the paperwork could just have with me if I could have done the paperwork
and even more step I know yeah I'm sure you want yeah
because I never Blake jobs and something it was just that
didn't us then
no
not really because
I had fun to win it you know
I should take place in my work
I'm the quick guide I could go and do it perfect the better I think
yeah and you couldn't moment and they could learn more money yeah until they stopped the Beast work
cuz you know like you're saying you obviously got really
high practical skills yeah too
but some people are hopeless I'd be hope yes so we did have some minor
we like I trained again yeah I was terribly
should never suppose
but but if I seen some of these luck and I couldn't help them
focusing them couldn't do it because I drained a lot of people are
trained my mother very loved one
because she used to cast my mother didn't know we did before me
well I trained because the gas must finish in
so I trained that to see her too well
which anybody wants to People Like did you get
extra
money
well yes
when I put in fresh you should get you put in fruits
because I was having so much fun to win it
I should work as well answering them yeah
oh they were going to the menu
if I never had another thing you know they've had met
they got good for years old to me then
talking about management earlier
and you were saying they were very few
managers there at the Beginning is that
something through then
yes it did all right why is that
then I don't know I think
we had one big manager
and then I think there was one for each of the sections
but then you add a manager
you what is
understood you which was
what they call them I forget what they call them now
we're gonna end the manager yes yes and the managers when you are
but
when I finished up there
you would simply jezz and
lately jazz and Lane features and
you think
that was a necessary I think it's I think it's really stupid
the idea of that was Japanese
they went to them to do
like
work
take over and some juice going off the lane
and things like that
and that's what they should have been doing
but they weren't they took it you see yes
you know when they were
to win on there
sitting back and letting you to everything
but if you go and sell them look I got
what go and
no look at you
really
so I think it was an excuse they get paid a lot as well
for not contributing that much oh don't you
know yes it's a big wage to pay for this it's not actually producing anything and I think there's an engineer today
all right because if it works in Japan it doesn't look beer
no
sorry
yeah people's net
so what their skilled
jobs there and then skilled job so with the different degrees
of
needed for different jobs there
well you could have done your training I could have gone on to do when
special skills in Wellington
Legend quite happy doing what I was doing
why is that but then
but
at the end of the day we would always want the same job anyway and they didn't
I don't think they recognise that there
but you could have gone somewhere else to do everything
and not make well daemon
court then
you know you
some of the boys could have gone on to do that
and saying are some of the boys came they recorded until we're not in a job
so I don't think it makes any difference but
still make good money yes yeah
they want to print is there with her yes there was a princess as they thought
tool sets in
electricians
fitters
yeah so we're going to feel when they were always boys for they
young boys and girls
beautiful
yeah
but that's not something that would have appealed to you if no no no it's been different no no no no I was quite happy doing what I was doing yeah
because I went on to do different jobs then after they release information
I went on to sold it in
in a way enjoyed so if they didn't
which job did you enjoy the best then
out of all the jobs of all the jobs did there
well let's see each of the Wellington I enjoyed wellton because I was going to set
you know yeah
so enjoy doing it
so how did
men and the women get on then during
oh pretty good
because everything they are the married one another anyway yeah you know they were quite
but they a lot of them had met their then partners there yeah
yeah
so when I when I saw you when prompted bed and before you were talking about initiation ceremony you are yes or yes
can you tell me about that and I was married then men
so my husband knew what happens to when he
he knows what I'm like
so it's the boys would come in no new boys they say you've got to go see on but I know
what for
got an initiation plates
so the boys will come up to me and said and bent over
but what's wrong
bend your friend I just go to
I give him a little ticker yellow alright bye you can go
they'd be going out today with red faces
I'd be today no but I play I never touched them
got just a little cheese yeah it was never put my hands on their
is what people thought there was to win mine because I had one shall be with
big rugby player
and he was scared stiff of me and the factory rather than Stand By Me
you didn't chase after him you know
I did something yeah
but we had some friends yeah I just got pain
lots of different things like that you know what they're like initiation ceremonies for any of the girls or
you know if somebody was getting married was there oh yes oh yes you'll never even if you're getting married they put you in the panel
it but all stuff for you there's a couple who is flowing well eggs
curry powder jam
would come jump on you oh yes you
for the girls are for the boys now for both
and 17 to put a ball and chain on the men ah
and then it wasn't chains and men with me always it's James have some fun
paid when you started there
I'm sure it's just three pound
number three pound map when you first started but like I'm seeing you what I'm a piece work yeah when she would send me your
six weeks
you had six weeks training as they call it but they must you did not then
you are you're
piece work
but like I'm saying you what to do so much before you could claim me a piece well yeah
I
can't remember if you want to pay you guys is regularly then
we'll we were putting in for them every year
we didn't we go to the straight
yeah we were
like I'm serious strikes
yes
what are the adults usually it's just too hot there
because you wouldn't work in the heat
and they wouldn't give you nothing because used to give a short tablets to insane
and if they didn't give you anything they woke up
out so everything will be on top everything we are stopped which is too cold The Food would call you up the shops the word
no there's more or less than
either the boys or whatever but you would see the shops do what you tell him you're
going to be one needs say
but we love to go
you know we love to see about it yeah
we don't walk out get the manager went down to see you
talk about it if they didn't like it right I received tomorrow
and that's a Retros
do you have however then we did we had the power went yeah
it doesn't work as at the same days not like today
and I think
a lot do they be young there's a let go
yeah
because the youngsters are too afraid to lose their jobs
which is fair enough I think
there's no jobs to go to today is there
no
but I felt I feel sorry for them because they're like 10
the word clue lamp but we didn't
we roll the work
and we were transfer it's
they were getting in as well as this so
it is pretty good
so how would you when you first started their you were very young how did you spend your money did you give some at home more oh yes you had to get started many at all didn't give your pay package your mother though because some girls I don't give the whole paper no no no pocket no I never said that and I never will
I wouldn't do it in my old man then I want to return anybody
noise to tell him what your hands and I'd give her so much a week
well I actually keep so much back for the swear yeah
and if I spent my best villager children to walk very often
so that is my look outside never asked him and his mother for opinion
when I was giving any money back
because she tell me where to go I think
but if I didn't have my own best friend
it was my thoughts and I'd have to be penalised
I get to accept my mind
there's the Middle East but your social life at the time was around the factory more or less yes
so what what type of thing
what type of
events did they have on what we'll we call chip
they do organized trips seven of the girls so
we're joking is a trip and we'll go to go say no
anyway like that's one and C
so the girls themselves at all organizations
Christmas party or something you don't know you said what you said
alright
we should take balls into work we did
all year let me down the party then on the last day
pick the four memory train stop it man but
by the end of it they joined in the party and I'm a clock in the morning
midgets
yeah
was
that herk's
for working in the fuk J
yes you'd get your Silence is cheap burn
you know we could have things cheaper yeah get your car's cheaper
did you find you couldn't afford it
no
he's saying that new attack was um
370 pound
you know that would be
equivalent for us to spend then
so we couldn't afford it but I mean to be cheap but then it's in the garage like
I can't do it normally
I was able
25% cheaper something like that
silly wouldn't afford it
you know if I could look forward to it I'm sure I couldn't afford the car
but why couldn't you afford bus for them we spending all your money I spent women or something else
like what clothes stop games
they stopping so what it is okay
you know so
when everything's like that you know
cigarettes and smoke it
did
a lot of the girls small yes most of them
most of the girls smoking them stick them days and they always spin for a
cigarette then
could you couldn't just go you couldn't sleep where you were working could you smoke on the job
yes because smoking the job then you'd ever get it for that
you're lucky he didn't go up for that girl's hey now yeah
oh no he's just smoking the fact that he then there was nothing and they didn't mind that no
well I suppose it was benefiting there was no it's never been an issue because I mean the four men would walk around the fucking his mouth
yeah it's never been in this year when we're concerned
there's
smoking come in yeah
do you think that they were that
the the bosses were fair
do you think they were Gordon employers
some of them were
I don't think
I like it like I say I like the bosses he was lovely but
I might be cheeky to them as well man
I wouldn't let them get away with anything yeah
but I think you're better off if you change your if you're a bit
nervous of them yes
yeah
oh my god I'm going to them
so we were talking about just builds earlier and problems and stuff it was normally about the temperature I was in about other things oh know about the book but
you know it's and you'll find out then there's another company
doing the same job as you will get into your wages
and you'd find this so because it's something we're coming apart
let's you dream with this same same same same same job
and then it was when I type of thing would come in a palette so from the same company same company from because we were looking for
companies that were in
was it rocks Bridge and was the other one Oxford yeah
and we get this for them and it to show
somebody it puts his face slip in there
you know we friends out too much they will get they were doing then I'm the same company yeah
so that's why we used to come to a straight then yeah then used to train tail it's the cost of living was more up there
but it wasn't so good
so what we were playing
so then we've got just straight with makeup is more money you can get more knowledge because at the time we went to having my charities
so that's what we used to fight for yeah
but all it is
which they letting water games today
on today's
did you have
a Christmas Day
which is your lat
and you'd have thought plate in the summer
yeah
shut down that shut down yeah
and that is a lot I think you would get a week
in October 7 times and then he started going into septembar
but
that is your lot
you had no army bank colleges of course your bank holidays
which wins so much time no
for men and the four women then because once somebody had left said somebody become
poor man
what they get a bit of themselves then some of them would yes
when it's just left
yes they would
some of them would forget where they come from
you know forget they've been on the shop floor
because it should make them a bit to form and really it shouldn't it if they know the work is like yes
but no some of them were quite
get on into which type of thing or I'll report you and
so some of the girls didn't get on with them after
I got on with them all I couldn't get it down what they done but I mean that's me
some of them I know didn't get on with them today
you know yeah so shame yeah just a gym
cause he's got like to the mythic and get on and do it but
you know trying to be fair with people yeah we've got to remember where you're from yeah you got to remember that they are just recommend from about his real
yeah
there's like MC and I didn't eat it one point myself
so my orders are coming from job yeah
and I was only giving more times I've been told to tell them
yeah
so
if talked about accidents
yeah
you were saying you want to pay for the gloves but you've got them and back again
can you remember any of the rules and regulations I know as far as you know health and safety was in a strong then
could you remember any other roles you had to clock in the clock oh yeah it's clock in a clock out yeah
was there anything you want to pass if you want you to go out you had passes what they call passes
yeah
time
things
you didn't know I know where we get no we go
sometimes you can jump to the pet man
yeah I used to go down to the because there was no such thing as drinking and
so we have a class of
yeah
then come back then be Marius started again
but
oh no just
go when
they Christmas same then and I'd love to jump over the things to get back in
you know things like that yeah
I mean
nothing was in
what the Who man in the Factory then
sense of humour and oh look pull in God
you know you'd have some clothes yet and
I'll get on with it but maybe the younger ones or what or just no no
I don't know
what type of leg pull in would they be playing practical jokes so yeah practical jokes yeah
they do that
because somebody put well I did my
players to the table
I went to get my players it was wrong yeah
you know things like that yeah
they were getting what I was working more
we had we did have some fun
or like one day but my friend and on the bloody function of different things you said
shut up
shut me in a cage
everything's got the toilet through me a bucket over you know things like that we used to have gone back set yeah
green we're really good so me today
yeah and it's still that they work out
properly about the fact you'd be in too hot did you get too cold in the winter yes you got your cold in the winter yeah
very cold
because
they changed these gen I think four times when I worked that
you know
yeah the gas fires up in the ceiling
then they put in the central heating that didn't work when they'd have to change it
so I think there was spending on the <:-) doing things like that and nothing worked really nothing were no
basically shut that yeah because it was yeah
facilities like they're like the canteen and the toilets and everything when we started there oh didn't you know no no
it's just sit down little lamination box says
you get your overall in there you Shields in there and it's
not usually lamination box
because you had no luck that's nothing
and then that is your
sit down there for your brakes
which have your thing there was a canteen mine
yeah to come to him but that was outside the fact that the samuday walks up there you are having a woman was gone yeah
so what did you do then did you take a pot lunch just some sandwiches or something you take
yeah it was like or something for you they did it Wednesday
that this
they did start and then they stopped and then they started back then
when I first started they would have been music like
for sure what was the day
what the rate was on for the factory you know
but then they stopped it then they brought it back then it went into the
night
why did they stop it then oh because it was interfere into Wants to Be With You Luke
because the rules started changing
and what way yeah or they started getting um
but she about things you know
yeah yes certain things in this set
why is that then to show the boss but to show the bus to us
yes
and boss you do as I told
your child
allows you to tell him if you can do this job by doing fgm
but no no no I couldn't do that never done the job
so we just tell me how to do it then
you know
changed then when it's stopped being peace work and you want to like a flat rate then is it
what I'm going to bed but there's this from the dad's
no
you yeah
they went cheap because
lots of the music vlog that one time
say they didn't
but you couldn't blame that mine because
they would win the work and it's just that work at that same thing 50 people in 75
yeah
and that's what they used to wait it was
and then when
the other part of the Factory then we'll just yeah
they found it out and then because
he's here because they already
know yeah they weren't doing so much plug it
as he call it whatever can you hear me yeah I can't competitors yeah
no you went by yelt on the seats yeah very busy on the national we were very uh
unionised down there
all right on the seat on the seats
we've been rich yeah with them
like my husband and we was
just packing glass wall
and it was a dangerous job because
I've been chilling and everything
let me know I was working with it
because I had to take the work of them to do it yeah and I was really thin would you just more
thing for me because I was covered in it
so they sold out there peace work
he sort of Direct
but I was still well I had to do it you know what I mean
that's a reducing one little things little but she thinks yeah
but shouldn't demand a Japanese able to sort that out
or would they aware of
yea to go through the Union all right
because if anything like that happened
union would be the Midland man
yeah
what's a union in a difficult position and you think sometimes no no no
Union were
the boss is at that same
because I mean it was
the Union was strong very strong at that time
so I think it was the union and the children management I'm told you mine
if they didn't think damage things at all
no no no no
because
they
tend to say the unions were too strong back then would you disagree with that
no not really
no because you
today you are God's Union
no you're going to Union today because like I said I went on the Union
and you would show it
don't make too much vests
you know you've got to
which I didn't want to do because I mean like I told you a very unionized yeah
I was very nice
but
try I couldn't why did you feel like that then did you feel the people
I thought that they can found this video about the people
and I don't like that
so where's that come from you then just saying
I don't know where they're just gonna put my own backgrounds
and you know
because my father wasn't again
I think
maybe because I was taking the same thing at one time
we are Father there's no working you can't have this
like it yeah you know
if I made you stronger I think sure Eddie
okay
just
ask your bit now you said you know when you went there you met your husband there
so did that work then with both of you being in working in the same place and knowing the same people do you think that made you stronger oh yes because we used to go to the capitals
yeah
you know they just
the Campus that
make their yeah but we were supposed to them like if you want to cry you go to them yeah and they say welcome to this and
we all need to go out to the Mars Motors climbing again
you know and it just got
you followed again with some of them mine
when you're doing your course but it didn't but it wouldn't be for long you know you could make it
yeah you wouldn't say angry with somebody
because I can't I got you
make up make up my view like me or you don't like me like I said I make a good friend but I'm exam
horrible enemy
so don't make a name in here yeah
but that's the way I'm gonna do it
why the makeup friends or me I don't
yeah
because
works like crazy today oh yes there's a quote yes
what about
but look at
people's window over time
over time is a big thing there yeah
what did some people are being given a chance to get more and over time than others
not their poem on a bit though because
if you're returned to give right you're you've got poor weather and yeah because you have
yeah
so I think they used to her
because
at one time it was just you were told
were you working on tonight
will you do it you know if you could
if you couldn't then they'd make a festival jets
it was either
to which I will give it to somebody else for the rest of the week then you know
so used to try and take it if you could take it
how many days a week did you work
buy it but you just started in
there was no sense is that when someone was there
no no no they did on Sunday skin
and how many breaks would you have then
oh when the first step
you should get your breakfast
and you didn't know
I don't think you had a break after that because like I said you could smoke
have a cup of tea on the job yeah
they bring the tea or you had a tea machine there oh right yeah when they first brought the team machine said
talked about holidays
did you ever go on holiday with
people from work yes we still do
audio yes
little wet yes we've done it for years where did you go
but then we went in the first starting off
then we went to Spain
we've got to get on well with people to work and go on window
but I tell you what I'm still friends with my own after
some of them put your ideas yeah 30 years
so
you understand each other that yeah
will you more like family
than your own family
you get me
and we talked a bit about Christmas at the factory before did people decorate and stuff oh yes we used to decorate
all of a machine that start to stop because of health and safety
but we used to do everything we should put to do
think that you know a little bit less and things on and
Stream Magic
drifted to me
so the last cop the cop but make a room decorations
the last book in Dean for Christmas was the best but then was it oh yes
so what time did you don't need a
off yeah
Christmas was you don't need anything so what time would work
stop on that day well you wouldn't set oh
so that's where we had an extra day really because
he's a great by 7 bye yep well after seven yes 7 or 27
but then I think from my present
then you'd work in about the Upper Street
and then you start to get another nine oclock
we open the bars then
the used to take for kids in and all the boys said
um we'd have a party then for my compound you can't do this to come to this which again
that's a labor it's just really ends yeah
so it's didn't matter on that day no you don't you work for it anyway all right see that's what I'm saying you should book in
now see you then
400 the day before 200 was for that day and 200 was Far
Christmas Eve
yeah
for new smoking in there yeah
so you got into their new student you work
tell me a bit more about the social activities in the club because you have like a club post then yeah
yeah but just in the canteen my night first Saturday then it went to the club
yeah
but in the canteen we used to travel downstairs and things
so what type of thing with your bands and stuff for
hmm yeah so I think we did have abandoned
food James
and then there's more like a
records what you call it I could just go there yeah
man in the records just to win
so Christmas time was there a children's Christmas party they're no we have a pan ziming for them what did you yeah Pennsylvania
I think it is in the January I think there's to do it oh they used to take them to the top of the way give you used to take them yeah
I'm the old age used to get something out of them yeah no they don't have nothing
to them now
that's so bad it's gone
so
who's going to the club then couples or sitting here
that's a good way to get an opening
a good way to get to know people out on yourself and yeah
what if you were on a section he was stuck with certain people because you can get on bigger sometimes can't you oh yes we didn't like to love it that's
like I'm saying you couldn't hear them talking anyway unless you look to them
don't mean it was straight no then we didn't try it and if you weren't being ignorant then
she'll be waiting maybe chocolate
you think oh well can you be anyway
like I can't hear them
like we just summon up now we're nearly finished
there yes you would shorten I was a member of shooting club there
and we should do it down in there
two years please don't let me
there was Dad's there I didn't adds
we are not goat's It's a Knockout
so where would that be held
it's a good in the fields in the Wall oh right yeah we had well they had pads there I never went to another
beauty or today yeah
gosh
all these to draw a bit of everything then it was so there was a miss Morris Motors I miss Lee and yes yeah
because what you can just run when she
Elaine no Elaine was an attendant or somebody
it was a big thing before I started yeah
they used to have
MS clemente here miss more response does in the Connecticut yeah they used to have too low risk the maintenance
yeah
all they used to be very social at Wednesday
but I think is going to think they got anything though
also yeah
like even youngsters don't come to the club with us he says
what do they call them tell me people don't go out as much so they don't know
um
but to enjoy working at the factory yes I did
I did enjoy it
I enjoy the company
the work was heavy like I said but you got on internet
and certain jobs I'd enjoy but when I finished that I was whenever work
I was doing big gradient so
I think if I had enough finished it with a definition
again you started we were 17 didn't yes they do 60 seconds
and you work then until you have until you are pregnant for the first yeah it only when they had yeah 1971 1971 I went back in 1972 73 in between because Christopher was a year and a bit so that part Time part time identify five years
then I went full time
then they may just redundant
then I went back full time
then and I work full time for five years
as a temp
alright just a temporary contrast yeah
that's where I was facing against the night for against it yeah
I think that's where they kept me so long
so we're for five years then I went on full time then the contracts then if they if it was a temporary contracted with the did they just keep on renewing the same there was no such thing as time on it oh
no there is mine yeah they got you I think it is used contract now
but I like to turn on your way two years yeah and you yes plan anything less you know finish your
go weekly for the two years yeah another day after yeah you know
very unfair like that they were yeah
and if they didn't like your face like I say I was too chops here
and they didn't like my face but
they kept them having your back they must say
well because of the work yeah
they knew that I knew the work
because I started jobs said and they finished them
you know they'd call me and say yeah
I was doing the Princess and Cardiff went same
which was a very heavy seat
that's it off
they went to finish it up then because they were sending it to another company yeah
will you come and finish them for me
I used to go
that's everything you know yeah so when did you finish eventually then
so how did you feel about
when they had an accident before I finished all right
a slipped
my leg I'm taking your hospital carried out on the stretcher
never knew I'd be done doing that though
and that's why finish them and then they had married and see which they weren't willing to give me
but I have major in general- because you've been on a temporary company 20 years yeah 14 then
so they were afraid
not to give it to me because I told him I take them to court
that they couldn't stop it anyway because I mean I put in for it to do something yeah
you know
I'm gonna be young for this
no you're not doing that no you say oh no I might see it it's a matter
it's not what you say you don't really know it's not like you can
there's more things happen to be one and be there because I was
staying in the same place very important only two jobs I have I went yeah
so you
finished
it was
it because of your leg or were you ready to go and anyway no I was going to finish I need that again for my return let's say right but I do only put in to see because everybody's finishing yeah
but when I felt a lot put the 10 lit on it
I thought they couldn't work after that anyway no
you know because I did about two months before we can never
because I had a big I had a big bang yeah
um
what does struck me right talked into a lot of women now is that
they have
worked
clothes with the women
and sometimes ONE Event sticks in the mind like
something the experience the same time as somebody else like
one of the girls in the valley she
said she remembers here but I'm advanced that type of thing yeah and another one
was not shoulder than you but she remembered here in
the Queen getting married on the radio the fact they stopped the factory and they played it on the radio for everybody to listen to all they don't tools
is there anything
any event that comes to mind when you think about the factory a particular day you're anything like that
oh no not really
do anything they could done the factory on the town I was when I was in this message yeah that's only one thing we remember that all right
there's something coming over the town right
you remember any visit by anybody
you know
there was no one nobody would you call it a Japanese camera around
I'm wondering which is normally a bad thing I'm wondering when to pick up
what you call him then oh
they call him things no men
one they read Josh when you started with them
and they stay right up for a long time
and he went to pick it up when I went to jail and I thought
it
I said
off by
the arms they were stepped him
ah
this scream thanks yes in Japanese
took it over
do you know did you know why they were coming around
no no no I just all there because I can commit the same thing
you know I was talking to a girl who is Slim man but she was saying people started coming around yeah it's not a good sign it's not a good thing
because when they watch you work in that's everything oh because I never forget and then and used to smoke a great if it just the last cigarettes for this
he's late you know
and I tell him boy with a second in any more you're going to choking it and then he came to work with a collar on
you must have heard himself I never forget it
I said
the fact they lick your children left you know
you look good just to you
ah
write to finish then how would you sum up your time in the
factory
but
god really enjoyed it I enjoyed my birthday
enjoyed my time they enjoyed my friends there
everything
it's alright the management centres mine
because like I said I don't have content there was a man
um
oh my god now
so if you have been worked there do you know
do you have an idea of what else you might have done or what else you might have gone
because you wouldn't have met your husband too
yeah
don't you never know when it
no you never know
you want to match your husband
all right thank you
would you win a bench seats and used to tell his chap now and he's always a character
so I used to wear that after pension used he was supposed to be doing the other half
so you'd be chatting here to somebody now
so right
I could see him shut and so I carry on doing the bench know I couldn't finish it
so I'd say with the end of the chef now we finish yet there
know it's a yeah
it's an average work college and I'm still
behind so you work that
so I used to do it anyway just
he was so called me I don't know 50 Stevens said and that's when Fantasia is up within them
then it will take
this back window
I came back from the thing
and he had to put it on the thing
with the flame and then
that's what I'm saying with them yeah
well if I could tell you some stories I'd be your present
happy
stories
right